README.md, before:

# Multi Tenancy with Spring Boot, Hibernate & Liquibase

## Overview

Multi Tenancy usually plays an important role in the business case for
SAAS solutions. Spring Data and Hibernate provide out-of-the-box support
for different Multi-tenancy strategies. Configuration however becomes more
complicated, and the available examples are few.

This project complements my blog series on Multi Tenancy
(see https://callistaenterprise.se/blogg/teknik/2020/09/19/multi-tenancy-with-spring-boot-part1/),
and contains working examples of different Multi Tenant strategies implemented with
Spring Boot, Hibemate and Liquibase, complete with support for database
migrations as well as dynamically set up new tenants on the fly.

## How to use the examples

The master branch contains a common, minimal example project skeleton. The
different Multi-tenancy strategy examples are in separate branches.

### Database per tenant

The `database` branch implements the *Database per tenant* strategy.

### Schema per tenant

The `schema` branch implements the *Schema per tenant* strategy.

### Shared Database with Discriminator, using Hibernate Filters

The `shared_database_hibernate` branch implements the *Shared Database with Discriminator*
strategy, using Hibernate's experimental support for discriminator-based multi-tenancy
(see e.g. https://hibernate.atlassian.net/browse/HHH-6054)

### Shared Database with Discriminator, using PostgreSQL's Row Level Security

The `shared_database_postgres_rls` branch implements the *Shared Database with Discriminator*
strategy, using PostgreSQL's Row Level Security.

## How to start a Dockerized postgres database

All the examples require a postgres database running at localhost:5432. Run the following command 
to use the provided `docker-compose.yml` configuration to start a dockerized postgres
container:

```
docker-compose up -d
```

Close it down with the following command when done, or if you need to recreate the database:

```
docker-compose down
```

Commit message:

Got single changeset applying to multiple postgres schemas working.

README.md, after:

# Multi Tenancy with Spring Boot, Hibernate & Liquibase

## Overview

This project demonstrates how to apply a single changeset to multiple schemas in a PostgreSQL database, enabling support
for multitenancy with a single database and multiple schemas.

## How to use the examples

### How to Use the Examples

1. Start by running `docker-compose up -d` to launch the Liquibase Docker container.
2. Next, manually create the desired schemas in the database. You can do this using a tool like pgAdmin or by running a
   script.
3. Specify the schemas in the `application.yml` file under `multitenancy.master.datasource.schemas`, for
   example: `schemas: "tenant1,tenant2,tenant3"`.

#### Note: Ensure that the schema names and number of schemas in the database match those listed in multitenancy.master.datasource.schemas.

4. Now, start the Spring Boot application. Liquibase will apply the changeset to all specified schemas.

### Updating Schemas

To add or remove schemas, update both the database and the `multitenancy.master.datasource.schemas` section
in `application.yml`.

### Applying Changeset Updates

If you modify the changeset, simply restart the Spring Boot application, and the changes will be applied to the schemas
automatically.

## How to start a Dockerized postgres database

All the examples require a postgres database running at localhost:5432. Run the following command
to use the provided `docker-compose.yml` configuration to start a dockerized postgres
container:

```
docker-compose up -d
```

Close it down with the following command when done, or if you need to recreate the database:

```
docker-compose down
```
